=========================================================
Case: State of Tennessee v. Kenneth Shane McDonald
Court: Court of Criminal Appeals of Tennessee
Date Filed: 2025-07-31
Citations: 
URL: https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/10645480/state-of-tennessee-v-kenneth-shane-mcdonald/
Source Query: murder conviction appeal
=========================================================

07/31/2025

IN THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TENNESSEE
AT NASHVILLE
Assigned on Briefs June 3, 2025

STATE OF TENNESSEE v. KENNETH SHANE McDONALD

Appeal from the Criminal Court for Smith County
Nos. 2019-CR-132; 2019-CR-266 Brody N. Kane, Judge

No. M2024-01275-CCA-R3-CD

The Defendant, Kenneth Shane McDonald, appeals from his convictions for first degree
premeditated murder, first degree felony murder, and aggravated burglary. On appeal, the
Defendant asserts that the evidence was insufficient to support the jury’s verdict, and the
trial court improperly restricted cross-examination of one of his codefendants regarding
sentencing exposure. After review, we affirm the judgments of the trial court.

Tenn. R. App. P. 3 Appeal as of Right; Judgments of the Criminal Court Affirmed

KYLE A. HIXSON, J., delivered the opinion of the court, in which JILL BARTEE AYERS and
JOHN W. CAMPBELL, SR., JJ., joined.

Robert L. Sirianni, Jr. (on appeal), Winter Park, Florida; and Frank Lannom, Melanie Bean,
Stephanie Pirera, and Elizabeth Stovall (at trial), Lebanon, Tennessee, for the appellant,
Kenneth Shane McDonald.

Jonathan Skrmetti, Attorney General and Reporter; Ryan Patrick Dugan, Assistant
Attorney General; Jason L. Lawson, District Attorney General; and Justin G. Harris and
Jack A. Bare, Assistant District Attorneys General, for the appellee, State of Tennessee.

OPINION

I. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY

These cases stem from the home invasion and killing of the victim, Jason Neusse. 1
At the time of his death, the victim had been living in a condemned warehouse in South
Carthage, Tennessee, and the building and surrounding lot contained a vast array of tools,
machinery, lumber, equipment, household supplies, furniture, and various other items.
During the early morning hours of April 20, 2019, the Defendant traveled to South
Carthage with Jeffrey Kolb and James Michael Burns. Once there, they converged with
Tom Grisham and James Matthew Murray, and all five men eventually went to the victim’s
warehouse. On April 23, 2019, after no one had been able to get in touch with the victim
for several days, the victim’s wife discovered his body inside the warehouse with his hands
and feet bound together behind his back, duct tape around his face and neck, and blood
pooling around his body from multiple visible injuries. Post-mortem toxicology testing
established that the victim had methamphetamine and amphetamine in his system at the
time of his death. After extensive investigation by law enforcement, the Defendant, Mr.
Kolb, Mr. Burns, Mr. Grisham, and Mr. Murray were indicted as codefendants for each of
their alleged roles in the killing of the victim, but the prosecutions proceeded separately.
The Defendant’s six-day jury trial began on April 10, 2023, at which three of his
codefendants testified.2 Following the conclusion of proof, the Defendant was convicted
as charged of first degree premeditated murder, first degree felony murder, and aggravated
burglary. See Tenn. Code Ann. §§ 39-13-202(a)(1), (2); -14-402(a), -403(a) (2018). 3

Retired Special Agent Douglas Williams with the Tennessee Bureau of
Investigation (“TBI”) was declared an expert witness in the field of digital forensics at the
Defendant’s trial. Agent Williams retrieved video surveillance footage from a neighboring
business, Rackley Roofing, that captured the warehouse from April 18 through April 23,
2019. This footage was received into evidence, and certain clips were published to the jury
during the testimony of several fact witnesses. Agent Williams also received a video

1
We note that the record contains multiple spellings of the victim’s last name. For consistency,
we utilize the spelling provided by the victim’s wife during her testimony at the Defendant’s trial.
2
Mr. Grisham’s case was still pending at the time of the Defendant’s trial, and he asserted his Fifth
Amendment right against self-incrimination.
3
The crimes of burglary and aggravated burglary are now codified at Tennessee Code Annotated
sections 39-13-1002 and -1003. See 2021 Tenn. Pub. Acts, ch. 545, § 3 (effective July 1, 2021).

-2-

surveillance system that had been found inside the warehouse, but he determined that the
last time this system had recorded anything was on February 16, 2019.

Jessica Lingnau testified that she was an acquaintance of the victim, and she had
been introduced to him through her friend, Josh McIntire. On April 19, 2019, Ms. Lingnau
was dropped off at the warehouse, where Mr. McIntire was spending time with the victim,
and she remained there for approximately twelve hours. The three of them spent the
majority of this time snorting and smoking methamphetamine, and she characterized their
use as “[snorting] line after line” and “smoking meth all day[.]” At some point, Mr.
McIntire left to retrieve another friend, Katherine Moffett, but Ms. Lingnau remained at
the warehouse with the victim. She recalled that she and the victim had “a really good
conversation,” and the victim seemed “cheery” during all the time she spent with him at
the warehouse. After Mr. McIntire and Ms. Moffett returned to the warehouse, the
methamphetamine use continued into the early morning hours of April 20, 2019. At
approximately 2:00 a.m., the victim gave his three guests money to purchase food and
cigarettes, and Ms. Lingnau, Mr. McIntire, and Ms. Moffett left to do so. When they
returned roughly an hour later, Ms. Lingnau walked to the door of the warehouse, but “it
slammed in [her] face.” She heard a voice from inside yelling, “Come back, my plug’s
here.” As she was walking back to the vehicle she had arrived in, Ms. Lingnau saw “a
bald-headed guy” who “looked really angry” walking behind her. At that point, she got
back in the vehicle and left with Mr. McIntire and Ms. Moffett. Ms. Lingnau opined that
“something didn’t feel right.”

Josh McIntire testified that the victim had been “a really good friend” of his, and
they had known one another for about two years at the time of the victim’s death. He
confirmed that he was present and using methamphetamine with the victim and Ms.
Lingnau, and later Ms. Moffett, at the warehouse on April 19, 2019. Mr. McIntire
described the victim’s demeanor during this time as being his “[t]ypical . . . laid back,
carefree” self, and he denied that the victim exhibited any animosity or aggression toward
or about anyone else. At some point during the day, Mr. McIntire recalled that the victim
had asked his guests to step into a back room while someone came to the warehouse to
speak with him. He explained that the victim “kept a very private life for the most part.
He kept work separate [from] his family, and away from his fun, too.” Mr. McIntire also
testified that, when he left with Ms. Lingnau and Ms. Moffett later that night to get food,
he fell asleep in the vehicle on the way back to the warehouse. When he awoke, he was
alone in the vehicle outside the warehouse, but he saw “the girls walking back to the car”
and two trucks that had not been at the warehouse when they left. On cross-examination,
Mr. McIntire acknowledged that, as they had “already been hid[den] away from strangers
once that day,” it was not necessarily unusual for them not to be welcome back in the

-3-

warehouse at the time that they returned. However, Mr. McIntire also testified that he
returned to the warehouse the following afternoon to check on the victim, but he did not
receive any response when he yelled and knocked on the door.

Jeffrey Kolb testified that he had been charged in the murder of the victim, and he
pled guilty to accessory after the fact. Mr. Kolb went to high school with both the
Defendant and Mr. Burns, and the three of them were “hanging out at [the Defendant’s]
shop” in Greenbrier, Tennessee and using drugs on the night of April 19, 2019. He stated
that he used marijuana that evening, but Mr. Burns and the Defendant were both using
methamphetamine. Later that night, the Defendant mentioned that he knew of a trailer Mr.
Kolb could purchase from someone in South Carthage. The Defendant had recently
purchased some equipment from the victim at his warehouse and stated they could go there
and pick up the trailer there that same night. Although it was around 2:00 a.m. on April
20, 2019, Mr. Kolb was told that the victim “worked nights, or he was up all night doing
equipment and stuff like that,” so he did not find the timing strange. The trailer was for
Mr. Kolb to use in his business, and was very heavy, so Mr. Kolb offered to go along to
haul the trailer back from the warehouse. Mr. Kolb, Mr. Burns, and the Defendant then
drove to South Carthage in Mr. Kolb’s white four-door truck, which was emblazoned with
his phone number and the name of his company, Middle Tennessee Dirt Works.

Upon arriving in South Carthage shortly before 4:00 a.m., the trio went to Walmart,
where they were met by another truck carrying two individuals Mr. Kolb did not know, but
he later learned were Mr. Grisham and Mr. Murray. They followed the second truck from
Walmart to a construction site, and the Defendant got out of the vehicle to talk to the people
in the other truck for about ten minutes. Both Mr. Kolb and Mr. Burns stayed in the vehicle,
and Mr. Kolb could not hear what was being discussed. The Defendant then informed Mr.
Kolb that he was “going to ride with [Mr. Grisham and Mr. Murray]” to go and find out if
the victim was awake and if the trailer was there, but Mr. Kolb and Mr. Burns should wait
until he called them to follow because the victim “didn’t want a bunch of people around.”
Between thirty and forty-five minutes later, the Defendant called them to join him.

Once they arrived, Mr. Kolb backed his truck up to the trailer that had been
described to him, and Mr. Burns got out of the vehicle and walked away from it. At this
point in his testimony, Mr. Kolb began describing what he saw occurring that night while
also referring to the Rackley Roofing surveillance video that was published to the jury. In
the area surrounding the warehouse, Mr. Kolb recalled that he could see two females
walking around outside another vehicle containing a third person, which Mr. Burns walked
toward, but he “lost sight of [Mr. Burns] around the corner of the building.” In another
area, Mr. Kolb could also see Mr. Grisham sitting in the driver’s seat of the truck they had

-4-

followed from Walmart earlier in the night. Within a few minutes, the first vehicle left,
and it drove past the place where Mr. Kolb was sitting in his truck. Shortly after this, Mr.
Kolb saw Mr. Murray run out of the warehouse carrying “a container, a box or something”
and get into the truck driven by Mr. Grisham, before that vehicle also left. A few minutes
later, Mr. Burns and the Defendant returned to Mr. Kolb’s truck. Mr. Burns got into the
front passenger seat, the Defendant got into the rear passenger seat, and Mr. Kolb inquired
about the trailer. The Defendant told Mr. Kolb that they “needed to go” because the
Defendant had “beat[en] the crap out of [the victim],” and Mr. Kolb then drove the three
of them away from the scene. According to the surveillance video, Mr. Kolb’s vehicle left
the warehouse approximately six minutes after the vehicle containing Mr. Grisham and Mr.
Murray had left.

Mr. Kolb drove to Mr. Grisham’s house, where Mr. Grisham and Mr. Murray were
standing outside near a fire. Mr. Kolb and Mr. Burns stayed in the vehicle, but the
Defendant got out and approached Mr. Murray. The two of them walked “a lap” around
the property for about ten or fifteen minutes, roaming toward the house, the shed, and the
fire before returning to the truck. During this time, Mr. Grisham approached Mr. Kolb and
told him he should “take all [the] lettering off [of his] truck.” When the Defendant returned
and got back in the vehicle, Mr. Kolb drove away from the residence and dropped the
Defendant and Mr. Burns off separately before going home.

On cross-examination, Mr. Kolb stated that neither the Defendant nor Mr. Burns
were “covered in blood” when they returned to his truck from the warehouse, but he noted
that he did not see the Defendant come out of the building. He confirmed that, during the
drive from Walmart to the construction site, the plan—to go get a trailer, rather than to
beat, steal from, or kill the victim—had not changed “to [his] knowledge,” but he again
noted that the Defendant got out and spoke to Mr. Grisham and Mr. Murray out of his
hearing before the Defendant ultimately left with them to go to the warehouse. When asked
if anyone forced him to go to South Carthage to get the trailer, Mr. Kolb responded that he
“asked to go actually, twice,” because he was having marital issues and did not want to go
home that night. On redirect examination, Mr. Kolb confirmed that he initially “g[o]t the
impression that [the Defendant and Mr. Burns] didn’t really want [Mr. Kolb] to go to
[South] Carthage with them[.]” Mr. Kolb also confirmed the veracity of his prior
statement, wherein he recounted the circumstances under which he left the warehouse:
“[The Defendant] gets in the truck, says, [‘]Go, go, go, let’s go.[’] I asked about the trailer.
[The Defendant] says, [‘]Just go.[’] [The Defendant] tells me that he beat the s--t out of,
out of [the victim.]” Mr. Kolb agreed that the Defendant never claimed that he had been
attacked or that he was defending himself against the victim.

-5-

James Michael Burns testified that he had been “charged, along with other
individuals,” in the victim’s murder and that he pled guilty to accessory after the fact and
aggravated burglary. He confirmed that he had met the victim on a prior occasion when
he traveled to the South Carthage warehouse with the Defendant, who was picking up a
trailer. Mr. Burns agreed that he, Mr. Kolb, and the Defendant went to South Carthage
together in the early morning hours of April 20, 2019, and he believed they were going to
the same warehouse to “get a trailer[ and] load some equipment[.]” However, when they
arrived in South Carthage, the three men went to Walmart rather than directly to the
warehouse, which Mr. Burns was told was to meet up with Mr. Grisham, whom Mr. Burns
had been introduced to a few nights beforehand. When Mr. Grisham arrived at Walmart
with Mr. Murray, whom Mr. Burns did not know, they followed Mr. Grisham and Mr.
Murray to “a fenced-in lot of some kind” that was “somewhere on top of some big hill.”
Once there, the Defendant told Mr. Burns and Mr. Kolb to “wait on them” and left with
Mr. Grisham and Mr. Murray. After Mr. Burns and Mr. Kolb drove around for thirty to
forty minutes, the Defendant called and told them to come to the warehouse. Having been
there once before, Mr. Burns directed Mr. Kolb to the warehouse.

Mr. Burns stated that he noticed “a couple of girls going back towards their vehicle,”
as they pulled into the lot surrounding the warehouse and backed up to the trailer they
expected to pick up. Mr. Burns got out of the truck and inspected the trailer, but he
determined that Mr. Kolb’s truck did not have the right kind of hitch to pull it. Mr. Burns
called the Defendant to inform him of this, and the Defendant instructed him to go and look
for “a hitch on another truck in the parking lot” at the warehouse. When Mr. Burns was
unable to find one, he looked for the Defendant, at which time he saw Mr. Murray standing
in the doorway of the warehouse waving for him to come inside.

When Mr. Burns entered the warehouse, he saw Mr. Murray going through some
tools, and he saw the victim on the ground with the Defendant close by him. Mr. Burns
noted that the victim was tied up and bloody, but he “was making some noise and [the
Defendant] was trying to get him to hush up” by hitting the victim’s head and body against
the ground. During this time, Mr. Burns stated that Mr. Murray was “coming in and out”
of the warehouse, “packing boxes of tools and [taking] stuff out,” and that he saw blood
on Mr. Murray. Although the Defendant was “shaking” and “bouncing” the bleeding
victim against the ground, Mr. Burns testified that he did not see any blood on the
Defendant. He clarified that the victim was moaning, not screaming, but the Defendant
instructed Mr. Burns to “take some tape and tape [the victim’s] mouth shut.” Mr. Burns
attempted to pull some tape off of a roll of duct tape, but he was unsuccessful, and he took
the tape with him when he left the warehouse. Although he did not recall whether it was
the Defendant or Mr. Murray who told him to take “one of the[] crates of tools” with him,

-6-

he followed the instruction and carried a box of tools out of the warehouse and back to Mr.
Kolb’s truck. Mr. Burns stated that he then walked back to the warehouse and told the
Defendant, “Hey, we’re leaving,” but he did not go inside and was “just hollering from the
doorway.” Mr. Burns was not sure where Mr. Murray was at that point, or whether he had
already left, because he “wasn’t necessarily keeping up with him.” However, as he stood
near the doorway to the warehouse, Mr. Burns no longer heard the victim making any
noise. Mr. Burns claimed that the Defendant returned to Mr. Kolb’s truck “a few minutes
later” than he himself did, and the Defendant got into the rear passenger seat behind him.

Mr. Burns agreed that only the Defendant got out of the truck at Mr. Grisham’s
house where the Defendant talked to Mr. Grisham and Mr. Murray out of his hearing. He
believed that Mr. Grisham took the box of tools he had placed in the back of Mr. Kolb’s
truck, but he did not recall whether he actually saw him do so. Mr. Burns acknowledged
that he had given several untruthful statements to investigators regarding the victim’s
death, which he asserted was an attempt to protect himself and the Defendant, but he
confirmed that his trial testimony was the truth about “how it happened out there[.]”

Prior to conducting cross-examination of Mr. Burns, defense counsel requested a
jury-out hearing regarding its scope. Defense counsel made known his desire to inquire
into the sentencing exposure Mr. Burns was facing before he entered into a plea agreement
in exchange for his testimony. Defense counsel asserted that “standard cross-examination
101” established “an absolute right, . . . a duty, to cross-examine what [Mr. Burns] was
really facing [in terms of punishment], not [merely the indicted] charge. . . . I’ve got a right
to [let the jury] know he was facing a life sentence.” Defense counsel further argued that
the fact that Mr. Burns was “facing the same charges” as the Defendant “means nothing if
[the jury doesn’t] know [Mr. Burns was] going from life [imprisonment] to probation.”
The State responded that it had not asked Mr. Burns if he was facing the same charges as
the Defendant, but it had instead asked both Mr. Burns and Mr. Kolb if they had been
“charged in this murder as well.” The trial court ruled,

[Y]ou can ask [Mr. Burns] and say, [“]You were looking at more serious
charges than what you agreed upon, in exchange for this proffer,[”] however
you want to put it. I think you can . . . establish that he got a break, whatever
or got a reduction in charge, but without going in – I don’t think life in prison
needs to be brought out. I don’t, I don’t think that’s an appropriate remedy.

Defense counsel disagreed with the trial court’s ruling because it limited “the effectiveness
of cross-examination, which is the bedrock of our [criminal justice] system,” but he agreed
to abide by the trial court’s decision.

-7-

Upon the jury’s return, defense counsel extensively cross-examined Mr. Burns
about the numerous “boldface lie[s]” he told to the authorities during the pendency of his
case, including the written proffer he made to the State in exchange for his plea agreement.
Mr. Burns acknowledged that he had not always been truthful or forthcoming, but he stated
that he was “no different than anybody else. Everybody tells lies.” He also confirmed that
he had not included any information about his or the Defendant’s drug use on the night of
the victim’s murder in his written account of the incident provided to the State.

Mr. Burns agreed that it had been “a rough night, raining and such[,]” during the
drive to South Carthage with Mr. Kolb and the Defendant on the night of the victim’s
murder. He denied that he knew of any plan to steal from, beat, or kill the victim and
asserted that he would not have gone along if such had been the case. Mr. Burns again
confirmed that he had seen blood on Mr. Murray, but none on the Defendant, when he
entered the warehouse. He also acknowledged that he had previously stated that he saw
the victim tied up with an orange cord, although he did not see who had tied the victim up.
When confronted with a crime scene photograph of the victim’s body as it was discovered,
Mr. Kolb acknowledged that, although there was an orange extension cord on the ground
next to and partially beneath the victim, the cords binding his hands and feet were not
orange. Additionally, Mr. Burns asserted that he had never seen the victim’s body with
duct tape around the head and neck, and the victim was not in that condition when he left
the warehouse. Mr. Burns agreed that he “saw a man who had been beat[en] up,” but he
had no reason to think that the victim was going to die or was dead when he left the
warehouse. Additionally, Mr. Burns asserted that he saw Mr. Murray burning his clothing
at Mr. Grisham’s house after they left the warehouse, but the Defendant did not change or
burn his clothing.

On redirect examination, Mr. Burns testified that when he left the warehouse, the
Defendant was “the last person in that room with [the victim],” and this was after the
Defendant had instructed him to “tape up” the victim, which he did not succeed in doing.
After questioning by the trial court, the parties elicited testimony from Mr. Burns about the
uncertainty in his account regarding Mr. Murray’s location during this timeframe.
Following additional clarification that he had not been focusing on Mr. Murray at the time,
Mr. Burns agreed that the surveillance video—showing Mr. Murray leaving in the truck
driven by Mr. Grisham one to two minutes after Mr. Burns entered the warehouse—would
be more accurate than his memory of something that happened “so long ago.”

James Matthew Murray testified that he was currently serving a thirty-year prison
sentence for his “conduct the night of April 19th and into the early morning hours of April

-8-

20th, 2019[.]” Mr. Murray did not know the Defendant or the victim prior to that time, but
he was a friend of Mr. Grisham’s and had been using drugs at Mr. Grisham’s home that
night. Mr. Grisham asked Mr. Murray to “give him a ride to a warehouse to pick up some
of his tools,” and Mr. Murray eventually agreed to do so. From Mr. Grisham’s house, the
two of them went to the Walmart parking lot in Mr. Murray’s truck, whereupon “a big,
white, four-door” truck followed them to a construction site. At that point, Mr. Grisham
got out of the vehicle and spoke to the Defendant, but Mr. Murray heard only “murmuring
and whispering” and did not know what they talked about. Both men then got into Mr.
Murray’s truck, and Mr. Grisham drove the three of them to the warehouse.

Once they arrived, the Defendant asked Mr. Murray to get out of the truck to go
look at the hitch on a trailer with him, but once the two of them were outside, the Defendant
walked past the trailer and directed Mr. Murray to follow him around the back of the
warehouse. The Defendant cut the tarp that was covering the back of the building but was
unable to find a back entrance. While behind the warehouse, the Defendant put a “skull
face” mask on, pulled out a gun, and told Mr. Murray, “The best thing you can do is just
help me do what I’ve come here to do.” The two men went back around to the front of the
warehouse, and the Defendant told Mr. Murray “to kick the door to gain entry.” Instead,
Mr. Murray threw “a big stick of wood” at the door, and the Defendant pushed him inside
once the door opened.

Mr. Murray testified that, as soon as the Defendant entered the warehouse, he began
beating the victim:

It starts with a pistol. [The Defendant] starts hitting [the victim] with
a pistol.

....

They get to scuffling, and then he hit, I [saw the Defendant] hit [the
victim] with a pipe . . . [and] a T-handled shaped object. And then just, really
anything he could get his hands on.

....

[Once the victim fell to the ground], [h]e’s getting punched, stomped,
kicked, things thrown on the back of his head[ by the Defendant.]

-9-

Mr. Murray stated that the victim was on the ground “[t]he whole time” except “for just
mere seconds” at the beginning of the altercation, and the beating lasted ten to fifteen
minutes, “at least.”

At this point, Mr. Murray saw “a blond-headed lady with glasses” standing at the
door to the warehouse. When he alerted the Defendant to her presence, the Defendant
stopped beating the victim and rushed over to slam the door. The Defendant impersonated
the victim and told the woman through the closed door to come back later. Shortly after
this, once the Defendant heard from “his people,” he told Mr. Murray to open the door.
When Mr. Murray did so, he could see two women and Mr. Burns outside, and he waved
Mr. Burns over to come into the warehouse. Once Mr. Burns entered the warehouse, the
Defendant told Mr. Burns to “help him hold [the victim] down, and to help him find his
gun.” The Defendant also told Mr. Murray to take one of the boxes of tools that were
“stacked up at the door” and to back his truck down to the warehouse to load the other
boxes. Instead, once Mr. Burns entered the warehouse, Mr. Murray “grabbed the tools and
went out and never c[a]me back.” He got into the truck with Mr. Grisham, and the two of
them left and went to Mr. Grisham’s house. After he reviewed the surveillance video, Mr.
Murray agreed that he had been at the warehouse for approximately thirty-eight minutes.
Although he never saw Mr. Grisham get out of the truck, he confirmed that Mr. Grisham
had been the one talking to the Defendant “this whole time,” and Mr. Murray was not privy
to those conversations.

Mr. Murray testified that, when the other three men arrived at Mr. Grisham’s house,
both Mr. Burns and the Defendant got out of Mr. Kolb’s truck and joined him and Mr.
Grisham down at the fire where they were standing. He explained that he and Mr. Grisham
“always had a fire built out there. . . . Every day.” When the others arrived, Mr. Burns
“had blood all over his hands,” and Mr. Murray sprayed cleaner on them to remove it for
him. During that process, “the blood splatter came off” onto Mr. Murray’s shirt, at which
point the Defendant told him that they needed to burn their clothes. After that, the
Defendant “said that the best thing to do [was] keep [their] mouth[s] shut.” Later that same
day, the Defendant and Mr. Grisham came to the motel room where Mr. Murray was
staying because they wanted him to go back to the warehouse to try to find the Defendant’s
gun, but Mr. Murray refused to do so.

On cross-examination, Mr. Murray stated that he had been charged with first degree
felony murder, but he pled guilty to second degree murder, and a copy of his judgment
form was entered into evidence and published to the jury. At a bench conference held
while the jurors reviewed the document, defense counsel reiterated that he believed he
should be able to ask Mr. Murray about the sentence reduction he received, but he agreed

- 10 -

to abide by the trial court’s prior ruling on the matter. When cross-examination resumed,
Mr. Murray confirmed that he “never once laid hands” on the victim, but he nonetheless
pled guilty to second degree murder. When asked if pleading guilty to murder made him
“a murderer,” Mr. Murray explained that he pled guilty to “a lesser charge,” and he also
had drug charges that were dismissed in exchange for his guilty plea.

Defense counsel then vigorously questioned Mr. Murray regarding the numerous
times Mr. Murray had stated “that’s the God’s honest truth” to investigators and then told
a lie or withheld information. Mr. Murray explained that he had not been truthful because
he was afraid of the Defendant and the other men involved in the crime:

[When I was first interrogated], these men [were] not in jail. They knew
where my kids lived, they knew where I lived, they knew where my parents
lived, they knew where everyone live[d]. And then, I’m in between, stuck in
between that, plus myself being there, too. Plus, I was on, I was really strung
out on drugs at the time, I’m not going to lie. I was really strung [out]. It
was all just a big wash to me, you know what I’m saying? And then, I can’t
implicate [somebody] when they’re on the streets and they’ve . . . threatened
me and my family.

When defense counsel asked if Mr. Murray was calling the Defendant “the bad guy,” he
responded by saying, “Correct. I’m a bad guy too. I put myself in that position. I’m not
saying I didn’t. I’m just letting you know why those questions [were] answered like that,
at the first interrogation.” Mr. Murray also stated that, at the time that he went to the
warehouse with the Defendant and Mr. Grisham, he believed that Mr. Grisham and the
victim “rented [the warehouse] together,” and he thought the tools inside belonged to Mr.
Grisham.

After Mr. Murray reiterated the circumstances around his entry to the warehouse,
defense counsel asked why the Defendant started beating the victim with “everything he
could get his hands on” if he had a gun. Mr. Murray responded, “I guess while he was
pistol whipping the [victim], the gun flew out of his hand.” Although he never saw duct
tape on the victim, Mr. Murray said that the victim’s hands were “possibly” bound before
he left the warehouse because the victim’s arms were not flailing while he was on the
ground, but his legs were. Expanding upon his earlier testimony, Mr. Murray clarified that
he had burned his clothing and that the Defendant had burned the “black coveralls” he had
been wearing in the fire at Mr. Grisham’s house that evening. Defense counsel then asked
Mr. Murray whether, once the others left Mr. Grisham’s house, that would have been the
“perfect time” for the two of them—Mr. Murray, a methamphetamine addict, and Mr.

- 11 -

Grisham, a thief—to go back to the warehouse and kill the victim, knowing that he had
been severely beaten and could not defend himself. Mr. Murray replied, “That’s not what
happened.”

On redirect examination, Mr. Murray stated that he had “[n]othing to hide. I’ve
[taken] my sentence, why would I lie about anything[?] . . . I’m serving [thirty] years for
what I [did]. And I owned up to what I [did].” When Mr. Murray was asked by defense
counsel on recross examination why he had gone along with what the Defendant
supposedly told him to do, Mr. Murray stated,

Because I’d . . . been threatened by [the Defendant] and [saw] what he did to
somebody. If you sit there and watch a man do that to somebody, he’s going
to do that to you, if you don’t do what he tells you to do, in a time like that.

Mr. Murray again reiterated that he never touched the victim but did plead guilty to murder.

At that point, defense counsel once again argued to the trial court that he should be
allowed to impeach Mr. Murray’s testimony with the length amount of the sentence
reduction he received as part of his plea agreement. He claimed that the trial court’s ruling
was “stopping something [he had] an absolute right to cross-examination [on] and
hamstringing it.” The State responded that Mr. Murray’s judgment had been entered into
evidence, which showed that he pled guilty to a lesser offense, and Mr. Murray had
repeatedly stated that he was serving a sentence for a lesser offense. The trial court stood
by its previous ruling, stating that, because the Defendant was charged with the same
offense as Mr. Murray had been, “[the jury] shouldn’t hear what he’s looking at, but I think
everybody knows what first-degree murder calls for.”

Gitte Neusse testified that she had been married to the victim since 2002 and that
the two of them had been living in the South Carthage warehouse owned by the victim’s
family “on and off” since 2004. The victim was living in the warehouse at the time of his
death, but Ms. Neusse was living with the victim’s parents in McMinnville. She explained
that these living arrangements were because the victim was “shutting down the business in
Nashville, and he was going to work back and forth, hauling a lot of material up to the
warehouse in [South] Carthage.” Ms. Neusse testified that she had been “in daily contact”
with the victim prior to April 20, 2019, and she became worried after she had not been able
to get in touch with him for a few days. On the morning of April 23, 2019, Ms. Neusse
and her friend, Mary Kuc, went to the warehouse to check on the victim. Initially, Ms.
Neusse was unable to open the door, which she stated “was not unusual” because the door
frequently stuck and “you had to wiggle” the handle to get inside. Ms. Neusse “knocked

- 12 -

it really hard and kept wiggling” the handle until she was able to open the door. When she
entered the warehouse, she saw the victim’s body on the floor. When asked how the victim
was positioned, Ms. Neusse explained,

To me, it looked like he was hog tied. But his hands were tied and, of
course, I went over next to him and kneeled next to him. And he had duct
tape around his face and around his neck. And it was obvious that he was no
longer there.

Ms. Neusse exited the warehouse briefly to instruct Ms. Kuc to call 911, and then she “went
back inside and kneeled down next to him and said [her] goodbyes.”

Once law enforcement arrived, Ms. Neusse provided Mr. Grisham’s name as a
potential suspect:

They had some disagreements about [the victim]’s trailer, that [Mr.
Grisham] would just come and take whenever he found it fit. And [the
victim] had rented a machine that [Mr. Grisham] dumped in a ditch, and it
got damaged. There [were] some issues about [Mr. Grisham] owing [the
victim] money for some jobs that they had done together.

Ms. Neusse acknowledged that there was a notice on the door of the warehouse declaring
that it was “unsafe to stay” in the building or otherwise use it, but she denied knowing
anything about the victim’s illicit drug use.

Special Agent David Howell with TBI testified that he was a forensic scientist
assigned to a latent print unit as well as a team leader for the Violent Crime Response Team
(“VCRT”). Agent Howell explained that the VCRT responds to process violent crime
scenes at the request of local law enforcement and that his team responded to the
warehouse. He described the procedures his team followed in processing the scene, which
included taking a video of the scene after an initial walkthrough, photographing the scene,
collecting evidence, and swabbing any areas or items containing “RBS,” a reddish-brown
stain, which his team “assume[d was] blood” for purposes of later testing. Referring to the
photographs as they were published to the jury, Agent Howell described how the victim
was bound and noted that he had duct tape covering most of his face. A multitude of items
containing RBS were collected at the scene, including a handgun found approximately ten
feet from the victim’s body and a metal T-shaped object found near the victim’s head. Both
of these items were entered into evidence and published to the jury along with the video
and numerous photographs of the scene taken by Agent Howell and members of the VCRT.

- 13 -

In these depictions, a large piece of wood is visible on the ground a few feet outside of the
door into the warehouse.

Agent Howell was also declared an expert witness in the forensic field of latent print
analysis. When he processed the cords and duct tape from the victim’s body, he was not
able to find any identifiable prints: “‘Identifiable’ means that I can identify it to somebody.
There could be [fingerprint] ridges on evidence” that are visible, but such prints are not
necessarily identifiable to a person. Agent Howell testified that the only identifiable latent
prints he found on the evidence collected from this scene were a print on a glass bottle,
which matched the victim, and a print on a Styrofoam cup, which matched Ms. Lingnau.

TBI Special Agent James Scarbro testified that he was the lead investigator into the
victim’s death, and he responded to the warehouse on April 23, 2019. He collected two
cell phones belonging to the victim from the warehouse, and he performed a data download
of both phones. Agent Scarbro determined that one of the cell phones had not been used
for more than a year, but the other cell phone showed call and message activity through
April 23, 2019, which was the date that the data was collected. However, there was no
outgoing activity from this phone on or after April 20, 2019, but there were numerous
missed calls between these two dates. Thereafter, Agent Scarbro also reviewed the Rackley
Roofing surveillance footage collected by Agent Williams, and he observed a large, white
truck with writing on it outside the warehouse in the early morning hours of April 20, 2019.
During the initial stages of Agent Scarbro’s investigation, the TBI tip line received a call
from Mr. McIntire, which led Agent Scarbro to interview Mr. McIntire, followed by Ms.
Moffett and Ms. Lingnau.

Agent Scarbro confirmed that Ms. Neusse had given him Mr. Grisham’s name as a
potential suspect, and he and other agents interviewed Mr. Grisham several times in the
following weeks. On April 26, 2019, Agent Scarbro collected a black face mask with a
“skull face” on it from the side of Mr. Grisham’s driveway, and he also received consent
to download data from Mr. Grisham’s phone. Agent Scarbro “didn’t believe everything”
Mr. Grisham told them, but he noted that Mr. Grisham was “back and forth” and provided
some specific pieces of information that Agent Scarbro followed up on during the course
of his investigation. During one interview, Mr. Grisham mentioned someone who drove a
truck that “said something about Dirt Works” on the outside of the vehicle. From this,
through the online business filings maintained by the Tennessee Secretary of State, Agent
Scarbro was able to locate Middle Tennessee Dirt Works, which had an address listed in
Greenbrier, Tennessee. When Agent Scarbro went to that address, he saw the same truck
he had seen on the surveillance video, and he conducted further online database searches
that identified Mr. Kolb as the owner of the truck and the owner of the home at that address.

- 14 -

On May 8, 2019, Agent Scarbro executed a search warrant at Mr. Kolb’s home and
collected his truck, which was photographed and towed to the TBI Crime Lab in Nashville.
He interviewed Mr. Kolb and, for the first time, was given the Defendant’s name in
connection with the victim’s death. Agent Scarbro confronted Mr. Grisham with this
information, and Mr. Grisham then gave him Mr. Murray’s name. Agent Scarbro
interviewed Mr. Murray, who acknowledged having been at the warehouse on the night in
question, and he also provided information about the fire at Mr. Grisham’s house afterward.
Agent Scarbro directed other agents to investigate Mr. Grisham’s burn pit, which was
photographed, but nothing was found in the burn pit that could be collected as evidence.
On May 16, 2019, Agent Howell contacted Agent Scarbro to let him know that the VCRT,
which was taking inventory of the contents of Mr. Kolb’s truck, had found a receipt from
a MAPCO station in White House, Tennessee that was dated in the early morning hours of
April 20, 2019. Agent Scarbro visited this business and reviewed its surveillance footage
for this time period, and he observed Mr. Kolb’s truck. On this footage, he recognized Mr.
Kolb and was also able to identify Mr. Burns.

After reviewing the data downloaded from Mr. Grisham’s phone, Agent Scarbro
noted that there were fifty-eight calls placed between the Defendant and Mr. Grisham from
April 17 through April 26, 2019. Agent Scarbro then subpoenaed the Defendant’s cell
phone records and created a location map for the towers to which the phone had connected
between April 19 and April 20, 2019, which was received as an exhibit and published to
the jury.

Further investigation led Agent Scarbro to review surveillance footage from the
Walmart parking lot in South Carthage for the early morning hours of April 20, 2019,
which was also published to the jury. In the video, a “large individual” believed to be the
Defendant is seen exiting Mr. Kolb’s truck and purchasing drinks, and he appears to be
wearing a jacket and jeans. Shortly thereafter, a second truck that Agent Scarbro knew
belonged to Mr. Murray arrives, and Mr. Kolb’s truck follows the other truck away from
the parking lot. Following his receipt of the initial TBI crime lab report and further
interviews, Agent Scarbro ultimately charged all five individuals in connection with the
victim’s murder.

On cross-examination, Agent Scarbro acknowledged that the cell phone location
data he received for the Defendant’s phone was a “best estimate” only and the results may
be “less than exact.” He admitted that he did not know Mr. Murray’s location in the hours
following the victim’s death, and, while he reviewed video from the motel where Mr.
Murray claimed to be staying, he did not review video for the day after the murder to

- 15 -

corroborate Mr. Murray’s claim that Mr. Grisham and the Defendant came there and
threatened him. Regarding the lack of evidence in Mr. Grisham’s burn pit, Agent Scarbro
explained, “[I]f there was something identifiable to clothes or shoes, then my expectation
would have been that that agent would have recovered those items.” He also agreed that
the person believed to be the Defendant in the Walmart video was wearing a jacket and
jeans, not black coveralls. During his investigation, Agent Scarbro collected DNA samples
from Ms. Neusse, Mr. McIntire, Ms. Moffett, Mr. Grisham, Mr. Kolb, Mr. Murray, and the
Defendant, but he did not collect a DNA sample from Mr. Burns.

TBI Special Agent Charly Castelbuono was declared an expert witness in the field
of DNA analysis, and she received the DNA samples collected by Agent Scarbro, as well
as the blood standard for the victim collected by the medical examiner, for use in her
analysis. Agent Castelbuono performed DNA analysis on “quite a few” pieces of evidence
collected in connection with the victim’s death, including multiple areas containing RBS
in Mr. Kolb’s truck, as well as the pistol and metal T-shaped object recovered from the
warehouse. Her testing of the RBS in Mr. Kolb’s truck indicated the presence of the blood
that matched the DNA profile of the victim. She found the victim’s blood

on the rear passenger side door grip; on the door about the handle; and on the
door below the handle inside of the vehicle; the side of the rear passenger
seat; the front passenger head rest; the back of the front passenger
seat; . . . and the rear middle seat.

Agent Castelbuono determined that the RBS on the pistol grip also tested positive for blood
that matched the victim’s DNA profile. Further testing on other areas of the pistol indicated
that both the Defendant and the victim were “contributors to the major mixture profile.”
She acknowledged that the pistol contained “a consistent mixture of at least three
individuals,” two of which were the Defendant and the victim, but the third person was not
identified from any of the individuals’ samples she had received. Agent Castelbuono noted
that additional testing was not conducted to attempt to identify the third individual, and she
also agreed that it would not be uncommon for the Defendant’s DNA to be present on his
own pistol.

Regarding the testing she conducted on the metal T-shaped object, Agent
Castelbuono determined that the RBS on the object was the victim’s blood, and DNA for
at least one other individual was present as a “minor contributor,” but “the minor
contributor profile [wa]s deemed to be inconclusive.” This prevented her from attempting
to exclude any of the other individuals she received samples from, including the Defendant,
as a contributor. However, Agent Castelbuono also explained that private labs elsewhere

- 16 -

possessed additional DNA analysis technologies that TBI did not have available, and she
opined that “there could potentially be additional interpretation that could happen with [the
inconclusive minor contributor] profile” if the data was sent to one of these private labs.
Agent Castelbuono discussed this possibility with Agent Scarbro, who then sent the entire
DNA profile from the metal T-shaped object to a private lab, Cybergenetics, to assess it.
Agent Castelbuono noted that the data submitted included all DNA evidence collected from
the T-shaped object.

William Allan was declared an expert witness in the field of DNA evidence
interpretation, and he testified that he utilized the software system TrueAllele to analyze
the DNA data that Agent Scarbro transmitted to his place of employment, Cybergenetics.
Mr. Allan received the electronic file of the DNA data TBI had processed and fed that data
into TrueAllele, which assesses probabilities of contributors to a sample and can “compare
it with anybody to calculate a match statistic.” He noted that this technology allowed
Cybergenetics to be more precise than TBI: “[T]he lab may say inconclusive relative to a
person, where we could say, no, [that person] is excluded or sometimes included.” The
specific question Mr. Allan was asked to answer regarding the data for the metal T-shaped
object was “whose DNA was in this evidence?” To that end, he was also provided with
comparison data in the form of DNA profiles for Mr. Grisham, Mr. Kolb, the victim, and
the Defendant. He acknowledged that he did not receive profiles for Mr. Murray or Mr.
Burns, but he explained that the “evidence probabilities” would not have changed if he
had: “[T]hey could have sent no references, they could have sent ten references, [but] it
wouldn’t have made a difference to what the evidence was. . . . [W]e just don’t know what
the match statistics are [for Mr. Murray or Mr. Burns].”

After giving a detailed explanation on the mathematics and scientific processes
involved, Mr. Allan reported the probability findings regarding the minor contributor
profile on the metal T-shaped object: “[The Defendant’s] match statistic is 43.2 septillion.
He actually contributed about 80 percent of the DNA on this object.” Mr. Allan stated that
“[m]ore DNA usually means a higher match statistic,” and the result of this testing led to
the conclusion that “only [one] in 41.5 million people would match as strongly as [the
Defendant].”

Dr. Miguel Laboy was declared an expert witness in the field of forensic pathology,
and he testified that he was the medical examiner who performed the victim’s autopsy. As
reflected in his report, which was introduced into evidence, Dr. Laboy catalogued
numerous internal and external injuries to the victim’s body, including eleven lacerations
to the head and face. He referred to and described photographs of each of these injuries as
they were published to the jury, and he observed that no healing had occurred for any of

- 17 -

the victim’s injuries. The victim’s nose had been broken, and his entire face except for the
bridge of his nose was wrapped in duct tape at the time Dr. Laboy received the body. He
confirmed that the victim’s mouth, eyes, and nostrils had all been covered by the duct tape
before he removed it to conduct his examination. Additionally, he observed hemorrhaging
in the neck muscles, which indicated trauma to the area that had not been visible on the
surface, and subarachnoid and subdural hemorrhaging in the brain. He noted that blood
pooling in the victim’s broken nose coupled with unconsciousness would make breathing
difficult, and he also explained that if “someone put pressure on the [victim’s] neck until
[he] passed out,” it would not leave any external markings on the victim’s body. Dr. Laboy
explained that all of the victim’s injuries were consistent with impact to the areas in which
they occurred, many of which he believed had been caused by “impact with an object. It
could be a fist or it could be a weapon.” He disagreed with the assertion that injuries to
victim’s mouth or face could have been caused by struggling to breathe after the duct tape
had been applied, and he maintained that the injuries required impact. Dr. Laboy
determined the cause of death to be from blunt and sharp force injuries, but “asphyxia as
part of the cause of death cannot be ruled out.”

Dr. Laboy also collected a blood sample during the victim’s autopsy, but it was a
much smaller amount than he normally collected. Dr. Laboy explained that decomposition
causes the body to “lose a lot of fluid,” including blood, but he sent the limited sample he
was able to collect to a toxicologist for analysis, which came back positive for high levels
of methamphetamine and amphetamine. He described these findings as “toxic levels of
methamphetamine and amphetamine,” but “toxic level” did not mean that the level would
necessarily have been fatal. He also clarified that the loss of fluid and redistribution of
blood during decomposition would affect the readings, stating that, “In decomposition,
drugs change. . . . [S]ometimes there’s postmortem redistribution inside the body, meaning
that the levels in different areas are going to be different.” At the conclusion of Dr. Laboy’s
testimony, the State rested its case-in-chief.

James Harold McDonald testified that he was the Defendant’s father, and he knew
the Defendant to be a hard worker and an attentive father to his children. Mr. McDonald
denied knowing anything about the Defendant’s involvement in any type of criminal
activity. However, he acknowledged that he did not know any of the Defendant’s friends,
and he was not present at the warehouse on the night of the victim’s death. Mr. McDonald
also agreed that he loved his son, that the Defendant’s incarceration had been difficult for
his family, and that he wanted the Defendant to come home.

John Morris was declared an expert witness in the field of digital forensics, and he
testified regarding his review of the Rackley Roofing surveillance video and the system

- 18 -

that had recorded it. Mr. Morris explained that the motion sensor sensitivity for this
particular type of system could be configured to concentrate on “hot spots,” meaning it
only recorded footage of motion in certain areas. However, Mr. Morris admitted that he
did not know what any of the sensitivity or other recording settings were at the time this
system recorded the footage he reviewed because the configuration information was not
available. Still, he opined that the settings may not have been trained on the specific area
surrounding the warehouse, as the surveillance equipment belonged to a neighboring
business that would likely be more concerned with its own property. Mr. Morris based this
opinion on various examples of “gaps” he identified in the recorded footage where,
although the videos were sequential, people and vehicles suddenly appeared in the area
around the warehouse without any recorded footage of them entering the frame. Mr.
Morris also expressed his concern regarding the area around the warehouse because there
was “so much clutter there that, number one, the camera can’t see [the people in the frame].
And number two, that’s going to interfere with motion detection, as well.”

Dr. Jimmie Valentine was declared an expert witness in the field of toxicology, and
he testified regarding the general effects of methamphetamine use and his opinion on the
levels present in the victim’s blood as noted in the medical examiner’s report. He described
“the meth experience” as having three distinct phases: the “euphoric” state, during which
the subject experienced a “rush” and “high energy” for ten to fifteen minutes; the
“shoulder” stage, during which the euphoria wanes and becomes less intense for about an
hour; and, the “tweaking” stage, during which the subject goes through a period of “coming
down” characterized by depression, anxiety, irritability, hypervigilance, paranoia, and
auditory and tactile hallucinations. Dr. Valentine noted that the “tweaking” stage lasts
approximately four to six hours, and the subject would experience an intense desire during
this time to consume more of the drug. He described how a person’s “tolerance” for
methamphetamine increased with continued use over time, but this tolerance would not
decrease the potency of the “tweaking” stage. However, it would require greater dosages
of the drug to achieve the same euphoric effect during the earlier stages. Dr. Valentine
called this “re[i]nforcing action” typical of methamphetamine use, and he stated that it
often leads users to “binge” by taking multiple doses over a period of time.

Dr. Valentine opined that this type of use was the only way to achieve the levels
present in the victim’s blood at the time of his death, and these levels were consistent with
an individual’s using methamphetamine somewhat continuously for approximately twelve
hours. However, he noted that decomposition was a factor he considered in his analysis
because “after death, some drugs can diffuse from other tissues out into the blood itself,
and can make the levels somewhat higher.” He also explained that death stops the body
from metabolizing methamphetamine into amphetamine, which is a process that itself

- 19 -

requires some “lag time” after ingestion of the drug. Based on those factors, Dr. Valentine
was not able to determine how long before his death the victim stopped consuming
methamphetamine, nor could he opine on what stage of “the meth experience” the victim
had reached at the time of his death. Regarding the description of the “toxic” levels present
in the victim’s blood, Dr. Valentine clarified that “there’s a difference between toxic and
lethal. . . . Toxic simply means that you’re going to have some kind of overt manifestation
of the drug that you can observe.” He also agreed that a person being described as “content,
happy, [and] having a good time” was consistent with a “meth binge scenario[.]” He
confirmed that, while not all users “become violent,” some users who are proceeding
through these stages “could” be volatile.

Thereafter, the defense rested its case-in-chief and moved for a judgment of
acquittal, which was denied. Following closing arguments 4 and instruction by the trial
court, the jury found the Defendant guilty as charged in the indictments, and his subsequent
motion for new trial was later denied.

The Defendant filed a timely notice of appeal.

II. ANALYSIS

On appeal, the Defendant contends that the evidence introduced at trial was
insufficient to support the jury’s verdict, and the trial court erred by refusing to allow him
to cross-examine Mr. Murray about the specific sentence reduction he received as part of
his plea agreement for conviction of a lesser included offense. The State responds that the
evidence was “more than sufficient” to sustain the Defendant’s convictions, and the trial
court properly refused to allow the jury to hear testimony about the sentencing exposure
the Defendant and each of his codefendants faced regarding the offenses in these cases.

A. Sufficiency of the Evidence

The United States Constitution prohibits the states from depriving “any person of
life, liberty, or property, without due process of law[.]” U.S. Const. amend. XIV, § 1. A
state shall not deprive a criminal defendant of his liberty “except upon proof beyond a
reasonable doubt of every fact necessary to constitute the crime with which he is charged.”
In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358, 364 (1970). In determining whether a state has met this
burden following a finding of guilt, “the relevant question is whether, after viewing the

4
We note that, prior to closing arguments, defense counsel again argued to the trial court that he
should be allowed to discuss during his closing argument the sentencing exposure of the codefendants who
provided testimony. The trial court stood on its previous ruling prohibiting such argument.

- 20 -

evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have
found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt.” Jackson v. Virginia,
443 U.S. 307, 319 (1979). Because a guilty verdict removes the presumption of innocence
and replaces it with a presumption of guilt, the defendant has the burden on appeal of
illustrating why the evidence is insufficient to support the jury’s verdict. State v. Tuggle,
639 S.W.2d 913, 914 (Tenn. 1982). If a convicted defendant makes this showing, the
finding of guilt shall be set aside. Tenn. R. App. P. 13(e).

“Questions concerning the credibility of witnesses, the weight and value to be given
the evidence, as well as all factual issues raised by the evidence are resolved by the trier of
fact.” State v. Bland, 958 S.W.2d 651, 659 (Tenn. 1997). Appellate courts do not “reweigh
or reevaluate the evidence.” Id. (citing State v. Cabbage, 571 S.W.2d 832, 835 (Tenn.
1978)). “A guilty verdict by the jury, approved by the trial judge, accredits the testimony
of the witnesses for the State and resolves all conflicts in favor of the theory of the State.”
State v. Grace, 493 S.W.2d 474, 476 (Tenn. 1973). The law provides this deference to the
jury’s verdict because

[t]he jury and the [t]rial [j]udge saw the witnesses face to face, heard them
testify, and observed their demeanor on the stand, and were in much better
position than we are, to determine the weight to be given their testimony.
The ‘human atmosphere of the trial and the totality of the evidence’ before
the court below cannot be reproduced in an appellate court, which sees only
the written record[.]

Carroll v. State, 370 S.W.2d 523, 527 (Tenn. 1963) (quoting Folk v. Folk, 355 S.W.2d 634,
637 (Tenn. 1962)). Therefore, on appellate review, “the State is entitled to the strongest
legitimate view of the trial evidence and all reasonable or legitimate inferences which may
be drawn therefrom.” Cabbage, 571 S.W.2d at 835.

The identity of the perpetrator is an essential element of any crime. State v. Miller,
638 S.W.3d 136, 158 (Tenn. 2021). The State has the burden of proving the identity of the
defendant as the perpetrator beyond a reasonable doubt. State v. Sneed, 908 S.W.2d 408,
410 (Tenn. Crim. App. 1995) (citing White v. State, 533 S.W.2d 735, 744 (Tenn. Crim.
App. 1975)). Identity is a question of fact for the jury’s determination upon consideration
of all competent proof. State v. Thomas, 158 S.W.3d 361, 388 (Tenn. 2005). As with any
sufficiency analysis, the State is entitled to the strongest legitimate view of the evidence
concerning identity contained in the record, as well as all reasonable inferences which may
be drawn from the evidence. See id. (citing State v. Evans, 838 S.W.2d 185, 191 (Tenn.
1992)); see also Miller, 638 S.W.3d at 158-59.

- 21 -

1. First Degree Premeditated Murder

On appeal, the Defendant asserts that the State failed to prove the elements of
premeditation and intent to kill as necessary to sustain his conviction for this offense. He
further asserts that the Defendant’s identity as the person who killed the victim was not
established. Specifically, he asserts that “[n]owhere in the record through the testimonies
of the witnesses is there even a scintilla of evidence that [he] killed anyone, let alone
planned or prepared in a manner that would enable a finding of premeditation.” Regarding
his intent to kill, the Defendant notes that the witnesses testified to only seeing blood on
Mr. Murray’s clothes, not his, and that their testimonies were inconsistent and established
only an intent to purchase a trailer that evening. He also notes that though the victim was
assaulted that evening, no one saw the victim in the condition he was found, duct tape over
his face and hog-tied, prior to their leaving the warehouse. The Defendant also generally
claims that the verdict was contrary to the evidence, challenging the adequacy of the DNA
evidence and the reliability of the video footage from the warehouse. The State responds
that a reasonable jury could infer from the evidence that the Defendant killed the victim
while acting with premeditation and the intent to kill.

First degree premeditated murder is defined as “[a] premeditated and intentional
killing of another.” Tenn. Code Ann. § 39-13-202(a)(1). A person acts intentionally
“when it is the person’s conscious objective or desire to engage in the conduct or cause the
result.” Id. § -11-106(a)(21).

[P]remeditation is an act done after the exercise of reflection and judgment.
“Premeditation” means that the intent to kill must have been formed prior to
the act itself. It is not necessary that the purpose to kill preexist in the mind
of the accused for any definite period of time. The mental state of the accused
at the time the accused allegedly decided to kill must be carefully considered
in order to determine whether the accused was sufficiently free from
excitement and passion as to be capable of premeditation.

Id. § 39-13-202(d).5 “Premeditation may be inferred from the manner and circumstances
of the killing.” Finch v. State, 226 S.W.3d 307, 318 (Tenn. 2007) (citing State v. Bland,
958 S.W.2d 651, 660 (Tenn. 1997)). Several circumstances may bear on the existence of
premeditation, including but not limited to:

5
This subsection was redesignated in 2021 and is now located at Tennessee Code Annotated
section 39-13-202(e). See 2021 Tenn. Pub. Acts, ch. 394, § 1.

- 22 -

(1) The use of a deadly weapon on an unarmed victim;

(2) The particular cruelty of the killing;

(3) Threats or declarations of intent to kill;

(4) The procurement of a weapon;

(5) Any preparations to conceal the crime undertaken before the crime was
committed;

(6) The destruction or secretion of evidence of the killing;

(7) Calmness after the killing;

(8) Evidence of motive;

(9) The use of multiple weapons in succession;

(10) The infliction of multiple wounds or repeated blows;

(11) Evidence that the victim was retreating or attempting to escape when
killed;

(12) The lack of provocation on the part of the victim; and

(13) The failure to render aid to the victim.

State v. Reynolds, 635 S.W.3d 893, 916-17 (Tenn. 2021). The list of specific circumstances
developed through case decisions is not exhaustive, however, and the trier of fact “is not
limited to any specific evidence when determining whether a defendant intentionally killed
the victim after the exercise of reflection and judgment.” State v. Davidson, 121 S.W.3d
600, 615 (Tenn. 2003) (internal quotations omitted).

Here, evidence was submitted to the jury that the Defendant concealed his face and
armed himself with a gun prior to directing a forcible entry into the warehouse where the
victim was living. From these facts, a reasonable jury could infer premeditation on the part
of the Defendant because he had the foresight to procure a weapon and was prepared to
conceal the crime before it was committed. See Reynolds, 635 S.W.3d at 916-17. Once

- 23 -

inside, the Defendant immediately began assaulting the unarmed victim by inflicting
“repeated blows” and using “multiple weapons in succession.” Id. After the victim had
been savagely beaten, the Defendant was the last person in the warehouse with him—until
the victim was discovered, deceased, three days later with his hands and feet bound and
duct tape almost completely covering his face. From these circumstances, a reasonable
jury could infer that this was a killing of “particular cruelty” and that the Defendant failed
to “render aid to the victim.” Id. The jury also heard testimony that the Defendant gave
instructions to his codefendants before, during, and immediately after the killing, and that
he burned his outer clothing after leaving the warehouse. From these additional facts, a
reasonable jury could infer that the Defendant exhibited “[c]almness after the killing” and
destroyed evidence of his involvement. Id. The testimony established that the victim was
taken by surprise when the Defendant attacked him, supporting the inference that there was
“lack of provocation on the part of the victim.” Id. These circumstances support the jury’s
finding that the Defendant was the perpetrator and that he acted with premeditation. Also,
covering the victim’s mouth and nose with duct tape would foreseeably lead to suffocation,
supporting a finding of this being an intentional killing.

Further, a reasonable jury could infer from Mr. Murray’s testimony—that the
Defendant pulled out a gun and told him to “help [him] do what [he] c[a]me here to do,”
immediately before bursting into the warehouse and beginning to assault the victim—that
the Defendant was the perpetrator, and he acted with the intent to kill the victim. As noted
above, we do not reweigh or reevaluate the evidence presented at trial, nor do we make any
credibility determinations of the witnesses providing such evidence. See Bland, 958
S.W.2d at 659. Such determinations are the province of the jury. See Grace, 493 S.W.2d
at 476. Additionally, the jury heard from multiple experts that DNA evidence tied the
Defendant to the objects used as weapons named in the beating, which also contained the
victim’s blood, and the victim’s blood was found in Mr. Kolb’s truck surrounding the area
where the Defendant was sitting after leaving the warehouse. The jury also considered
video surveillance footage along with the physical evidence and testimony, and it was the
role of the jury to evaluate the reliability of the evidence and give it whatever weight the
jury deemed appropriate. See id. The evidence was sufficient to support this conviction,
and the Defendant is not entitled to relief.

2. Aggravated Burglary

The Defendant contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction
for aggravated burglary because the State failed to prove that he entered the warehouse
where the victim was living with the intent to commit a felony, theft, or assault. He grounds
this assertion in his claim that there was no evidence that the Defendant himself took part

- 24 -

in any theft and that “the DNA evidence provided fails to establish [he] committed an
assault.” The State responds that the jury could reasonably infer from the manner and
circumstances of the Defendant’s entry into the warehouse that he did so with the intent to
commit theft, assault, and murder.

As indicted here, a person commits aggravated burglary who, without the effective
consent of the property owner, enters a habitation with intent to commit a felony, theft, or
assault. Tenn. Code Ann. §§ 39-14-402(a), -403(a). “Habitation” is defined as “any
structure, including buildings, module units, mobile homes, trailers, and tents, which is
designed or adapted for the overnight accommodation of persons.” Id. § -401(1)(A). An
owner is a person “in lawful possession of property whether the possession is actual or
constructive.” Id. § -401(3).

The parties do not dispute that the condemned warehouse where the murder took
place was the victim’s residence. Testimony established that the Defendant and Mr.
Murray made a forcible entry into the warehouse, after the Defendant had armed himself
and looked for a back entrance, and the Defendant immediately began to assault the victim
by beating him with multiple objects. The Defendant’s DNA was later found on the same
objects, which also contained the victim’s blood. After the victim had been subdued, the
Defendant instructed two of his codefendants to take tools out of the warehouse. From
this, a reasonable jury could infer that the Defendant intentionally entered the victim’s
habitation with the intent to commit an assault, which is supported by him immediately
attacking the victim; with the intent to commit a theft, which he directed others to complete;
and with the intent to commit a felony, namely the first degree premeditated murder of the
victim. It is no defense that the Defendant did not himself perform the taking; the statute
merely requires that he have the intent to do so, or the intent to commit an assault or felony,
which the Defendant himself did commit. See Tenn. Code Ann. §§ 39-14-402(a), -403(a).
The Defendant is not entitled to relief.

3. First Degree Felony Murder

Tennessee Code Annotated section 39-13-202(a), in relevant part, defines felony
murder as the “killing of another committed in the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any
. . . burglary.” The Defendant’s argument as to this offense rests solely on the evidence
being insufficient to sustain his conviction for aggravated burglary, as without this, his
conviction for first degree felony murder cannot stand. Because we have already
determined that the evidence was sufficient to support the Defendant’s convictions for first
degree premeditated murder, establishing the unlawful killing of the victim, and aggravated
burglary, establishing the underlying felony the killing occurred during the course of, we

- 25 -

need not examine sufficiency of the evidence as to this conviction offense further. The
Defendant is not entitled to relief.

B. Cross-Examination Regarding Sentencing Exposure

The Defendant asserts that the trial court erred by denying his request to impeach
Mr. Murray’s credibility, specifically, by inquiring into Mr. Murray’s sentencing exposure
and the favorable treatment Mr. Murray received when he was allowed to plead guilty to a
lesser included offense. According to the Defendant, this denial constituted a violation of
his state and federal constitutional rights of confrontation. The State responds that the trial
court properly restricted the Defendant from inquiring into Mr. Murray’s sentencing
exposure because Mr. Murray was indicted for the same offenses as the Defendant was on
trial for, and the jury’s consideration of the “possible penalties” the Defendant faced was
prohibited by Tennessee Code Annotated section 40-35-201(b).

The Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution
provides that “[i]n all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . to be
confronted with the witnesses against him.” U.S. Const. amend. VI. The right of
confrontation is fundamental and applies to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment.
Pointer v. Texas, 380 U.S. 400, 403 (1965); State v. Henderson, 554 S.W.2d 117, 119
(Tenn. 1977). The Tennessee Constitution contains a similar provision stating “[t]hat in
all criminal prosecutions, the accused hath the right . . . to meet the witnesses face to
face.” Tenn. Const. art. I, § 9. “The central concern of the Confrontation Clause is to
ensure the reliability of the evidence against a criminal defendant by subjecting it to
rigorous testing in the context of an adversary proceeding before the trier of fact.”
Maryland v. Craig, 497 U.S. 836, 845 (1990). Our supreme court has held that in reviewing
confrontation issues under our state constitution, we apply the same analysis used to
evaluate confrontation claims under our federal constitution. State v. Hutchinson, 482
S.W.3d 893, 905 (Tenn. 2016). Accordingly, “we ‘unitarily analyze the [D]efendant’s
federal and state constitutional claims, as the same standards govern both.’” Id. (quoting
State v. Dotson, 450 S.W.3d 1, 62 (Tenn. 2014)).

A defendant’s constitutional right to confront witnesses includes the right to conduct
meaningful cross-examination. Pennsylvania v. Ritchie, 480 U.S. 39, 51 (1987); State v.
Brown, 29 S.W.3d 427, 430-31 (Tenn. 2000). The right to cross-examine witnesses
embraces within it the right to impeach their credibility, or otherwise establish that the
witnesses are biased, which includes any promises of leniency or other favorable treatment
offered in exchange for testimony. See State v. Smith, 893 S.W.2d 908, 924 (Tenn. 1994).
“The propriety, scope, manner, and control of cross-examination of witnesses, however,

- 26 -

remain within the discretion of the trial court.” State v. Echols, 382 S.W.3d 266, 285 (Tenn.
2012) (citations omitted). We analyze the trial court’s restriction of cross-examination for
abuse of that discretion to the prejudice of the complaining party. State v. Johnson, 670
S.W.2d 634, 636 (Tenn. Crim. App. 1984) (citing Monts v. State, 379 S.W.2d 34 (Tenn.
1964), overruled on other grounds by State v. Collier, 411 S.W.3d 886 (Tenn. 2013)).
“Appellate courts may not disturb [a trial court’s] limits on cross-examination except when
there has been an unreasonable restriction on the right.” State v. Dishman, 915 S.W.2d
458, 463 (Tenn. Crim. App. 1995) (first citing State v. Fowler, 373 S.W.2d 460, 466 (Tenn.
1963); and then citing Johnson, 670 S.W.2d at 636).

“Generally speaking, the Confrontation Clause guarantees an opportunity for
effective cross-examination, not cross-examination that is effective in whatever way, and
to whatever extent, the defense might wish.” Delaware v. Fensterer, 474 U.S. 15, 20
(1985). Importantly, Tennessee Code Annotated section 40-35-201(b) prohibits the trial
court from allowing the jury to consider punishment in non-capital cases: “In all contested
criminal cases, except for capital crimes . . . , the judge shall not instruct the jury, nor shall
the attorneys be permitted to comment at any time to the jury, on possible penalties for the
offense charged nor all lesser included offenses.” This court has recently held that this
prohibition may allow a trial court to restrict inquiry on cross-examination into the
sentencing consequences of codefendants who have been charged with the same offense or
offenses as the defendant. See State v. Johnson, No. E2022-00302-CCA-R3-CD, 2023 WL
2567645, at *12-14 (Tenn. Crim. App. Mar. 20, 2023) (concluding that the trial court did
not abuse its discretion in preventing cross-examination of a codefendant regarding his
sentencing exposure, as he was originally facing the same charges as the defendant).

In the Defendant’s trial, Mr. Murray “testif[ied] under oath and in the presence of
the accused,” and the jury was able to “observe [his] demeanor under cross-examination”
as contemplated by the Confrontation Clause. Fensterer, 474 U.S. at 20. During a pointed
and vigorous line of questioning in which Mr. Murray was asked if he himself was a
“murderer,” defense counsel elicited testimony from Mr. Murray that he had pled guilty to
a lesser included offense; Mr. Murray’s judgment form was received into evidence, which
showed that he had been charged with first degree felony murder, as had the Defendant;
and Mr. Murray explained that other charges against him were dismissed as a result of his
guilty plea to the lesser included offense of second degree murder. Additionally, defense
counsel questioned Mr. Murray about his own ability to return to the warehouse unseen
and murder the helpless victim later in the night. Such questioning implied that Mr.
Murray’s account of the Defendant savagely beating the victim was even more likely to be
untruthful—because the Defendant’s alleged actions would subject Mr. Murray himself to
less scrutiny in the investigation into the victim’s death—and was bolstered by defense

- 27 -

counsel’s repeated inquiries into why Mr. Murray pled guilty to murder if he “never once
laid hands” on the victim. The Defendant was thus able to suggest to the jury that Mr.
Murray’s account of the Defendant’s assault on the victim was unreliable, “thereby calling
to the attention of the factfinder the reasons for giving scant weight to [his] testimony.” Id.
at 22. As such, we conclude that the Defendant was given the opportunity to cross-examine
Mr. Murray in accordance with his constitutional confrontation rights.

We also note that Mr. Murray repeated these facts about his guilty plea numerous
times on both direct and cross-examination. Thus, the jury was not prevented from
considering the favorable treatment Mr. Murray received, in spite of the lack of specificity
as to sentencing exposure, and it was able to assess that treatment as it related to his
credibility. To allow further defense inquiry regarding the sentencing consequences the
Defendant faced, even by allusion based upon the identical offense one of his codefendants
was charged with, would be contrary to Tennessee Code Annotated section 40-35-201(b)
and of minimal additional probative value in impeaching Mr. Murray’s credibility or
showing any bias he had in favor of the State. See Johnson, 2023 WL 25667645,
at *12-14 (concluding that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by limiting cross-
examination on the sentencing exposure of a codefendant who “had been charged with the
same offenses as the [d]efendant[ because] the jury was not permitted to know the possible
punishment for a defendant’s charges”). Therefore, the trial court did not abuse its
discretion in limiting cross-examination on this point. The Defendant is not entitled to
relief.

III. CONCLUSION

Based upon the foregoing and consideration of the record as a whole, we affirm the
judgments of the trial court.

s/ Kyle A. Hixson .

KYLE A. HIXSON, JUDGE

- 28 -